A warm, light weight and packable option for
cold weather or year round use, the Therm-a-Rest
NeoAir XTherm MAX Sleeping Pad doesn't cut
any corners.
Unlike a lot of weight saving, spaces saving
back packing style sleeping pads, it has a
really tapered cut.
The fully rectangular NeoAir XTherm Max sleeping
pad really does serve as a sprawling and comfortable
sleeping base.
Let’s take a closer look at its innovative
design.
One of the first things visual that jumps
out at you on the NeoAir XTherm MAX are these
horizontal baffles.
Traditionally inflatable sleeping pads have
had a series of long, vertical baffles.
And when inflated those sometimes can give
kind of a bouncy pool rafty feel for lack
of a better term and aren’t always the most
comfortable base for sleeping upon.
That is different on a pad like this.
You get really nice, consistent support and
sta-bility on this and it really diminishes
that effect.
What is out of view on this pad and exists
inside the actual baffles is a series of reflective
barriers.
There is some separation in there as well.
This pad does not rely on insulation for its
warmth, so it does away with the bulk and
the weight that you often have when you are
using insulation.
Instead, those stacked reflective barriers
take the heat of your body and throw it back
in your direction, rather than escaping into
the ground or into the air.
It gives this pad an R value of 5.7, which
absolutely is a year round worthy value.
So you can be confident using this on snow,
in winter or throughout the year.
The pad does come in a couple of different
sizes.
I have got the regular length here in front
of me, so 20 inches wide by 72 inches long.
A larger size gives you some addi-tional width,
25 inches wide by 77 inches long, so a much
bigger base.
In both instances you have got a nice two
and a half inch thick base beneath you, which
really, again, lifts you up off the ground,
allows that creation of space and that reflectivity
that makes this such a warm and comfortable
pad.
In terms of the weight, the regular comes
in just over a pound at 17 ounces and the
large is just a few ounces heavier than that.
Packs down nice and small because of that
inflata-ble design and the absence of, in
this case, unnecessary insulation.
The same feature that makes this so light
weight, makes it so packable and such a great
option for back packing is also what makes
it a pad that you do have to blow up.
It is an inflatable pad.
You have got the nozzle right here at the
upper end of the pad for that purpose.
Certainly you can blow it up by mouth.
It takes a little bit of time, but not an
excessive amount of energy.
But Therm-a-Rest does include a pump sack.
So what you are seeing here is not just the
stuff sack for the pad, though it serves that
purpose, certainly.
It also is a pump sack.
And what I mean by that, there is a nozzle
attachment right here at the bottom of that
sack.
Just wraps around the nozzle itself and you
fill that pump sack with air and you use that
to introduce air into the interior of the
sleeping pad.
If you don’t want to blow it up, you use
the pump sack to do that and save yourself
the effort and the energy of doing that by
mouth.
The other potential benefit of that is when
you blow it up by mouth you can introduce
moist or wet, damp air into the interior of
the sleeping pad and over time that can start
to wear away at the interior of the pack and
potentially shorten its lifespan.
Using the pump sack will cut down on any of
those negative effects and extend that lifespan.
It is also worth mentioning Therm-a-Rest does
include a field repair kit with each of these
pads.
So if you do run into some kind of issue in
the back country, something that causes a
leak, you can repair that in the field instead
of being stuck without the warmth and comfort
of a sleeping pad.
The Therm-a-Rest NeoAir XTherm MAX inflatable
sleeping pad, just such a great bal-ance of
weight, warmth and performance.
Got that nice packable size, perfect for back
packing, weighs just over a pound.
And then that 5.7 R value which means you
can con-fidently turn to this pad in varying
conditions and regardless of the season.